# Range

Range is a built-in function, that generates numbers in an arithmetic progression.

**Syntax:**

range (start , stop , step )

Before we look at how the range function works, let’s look at its characteristics
When we call / invoke the range function, it doesn’t return the list itself. Rather, it
returns a conceptual collection of values. The values come into existence only when
we explicitly ask for it. This leads us to say that range is a lazy function!!! . It knows
what it’s supposed to do, and does it only when it is forced to produce some result.

Many functions producing lots of outputs are made lazy in Python 3.x. The lazy
functions use less space compared to eager functions. The lazy ones may be more
efficient if we do not use all the results generated by the function.
The function returns an iterable object that can be used in a for statement or can be
converted / extracted into a list, set or tuple.
range conceptually generates an arithmetic progression.

>range(1, 10, 2)
range(1, 10, 2)

This output tells us that the result to call of range is an arithmetic progression with
the initial value 1, the common difference 2 and the final value is less than 10.
As we can see, the sequence itself is not displayed. It conceptually holds all the
elements.

>list(range(1,10,2))

[1,3,5,7,9]

range ([start] , stop , [step] )
start – initial value (inclusive) – optional, default value : 0
stop – final value (non – inclusive)
step – defines the arithmetic progression. – optional, default value : 1
Only one argument:
The argument is one past the final value. The default initial value is 0. The step or the
common difference is 1.

>list(range(5))
[0, 1, 2, 3, 4]

